---
layout: post
title: "intro H5"
date:   2016-06-20
authors: [Leah A. Wasser, Kyla Dahlin]
contributors: []
dateCreated:  2016-05-01
lastModified: 2016-05-02
packagesLibraries: [rhdf5]
categories: [self-paced-tutorial]
mainTag: tabular-time-series
tags: [R, HDF5]
tutorialSeries: [institute-day1]
description: "Intro to HDF5"
code1: .R
image:
  feature: 
  credit: 
  creditlink:
permalink: /R/hdf5-R/
comments: false
---

First, let's load the required libraries.


    ## Error in setwd("~/Documents/data/1_spectrometerData/Teakettle/testSubset"): cannot change working directory

## Explore File
Next, define the file name and view the contents quickly.


    # define the file name as an object
    f <- "Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5"
    
    # view the structure of the file
    # reflectance is where the refl data are stored. 
    # map info contains the proj information in WKT format
    H5close()
    h5ls(f, all = TRUE)

    ## Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(file, readonly = TRUE): Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(). Cannot open file. File 'Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5' does not exist.

    # let's grab some attribute information to use 
    # here we have the CRS information that includes the 
    # UPPER LEFT corner coordinate in UTM (meters)
    mapInfo <- h5read(f,"map info", read.attributes = TRUE)

    ## Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(file, readonly = TRUE): Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(). Cannot open file. File 'Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5' does not exist.

    mapInfo

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'mapInfo' not found

## View Wavelengths

Next, let's import some wavelength information.


    # import the center wavelength in um of each "band"
    wavelengths<- h5read(f,"wavelength")

    ## Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(file, readonly = TRUE): Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(). Cannot open file. File 'Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5' does not exist.

# Grab scale Factor
# notice the data ignore is a character.


    # r  get attributes for the Reflectance dataset
    reflInfo <- h5readAttributes(f,"Reflectance")

    ## Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(file, readonly = TRUE): Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(). Cannot open file. File 'Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5' does not exist.

    # view the scale factor for the data
    reflInfo$`Scale Factor`

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'reflInfo' not found

    # view the data ignore value
    reflInfo$`data ignore value`

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'reflInfo' not found

    # the data ignore right now is a character (we are fixing this)
    # you have to conver to num or int to ensure it is useful!

# Get shape of reflectance dataset

Let's 
read the data to grab the dimensions.
note: in a future version of the data we will have the dimensions as ATTRIBUTES
that you can automatically pull in


    # open the file for viewing
    fid <- H5Fopen(f)

    ## HDF5: unable to open file

    # open the reflectance dataset
    did <- H5Dopen(fid, "Reflectance")

    ## Error: Error in h5checktype(). Argument not of class H5IdComponent.

    did

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'did' not found

    # grab the dimensions of the object
    sid <- H5Dget_space(did)

    ## Error in is(h5id, "H5IdComponent"): object 'did' not found

    dims <- H5Sget_simple_extent_dims(sid)$size

    ## Error in is(h5id, "H5IdComponent"): object 'sid' not found

    # take note that the data seem to come in ROTATED. wavelength is the 
    # THIRD dimension rather than the first. Columns are the FIRST dimension, then rows.
    # close everything
    H5Sclose(sid)

    ## Error in is(h5id, "H5IdComponent"): object 'sid' not found

    H5Dclose(did)

    ## Error in is(h5id, "H5IdComponent"): object 'did' not found

    H5Fclose(fid)

    ## Error: Error in h5checktype(). Argument not of class H5IdComponent.

Once we know the dimensions of the data, we can more efficient slice out chunks of it
Let's first grab all of the data for band34


    # if you get an error with the file being "open" just use the generic h5 close below
    # when we are done with our attributes you can skip all of this nonsense :)
    H5close()
    # Extract or "slice" data for band 34 from the HDF5 file
    b56<- h5read(f,"Reflectance", index=list(1:dims[1],1:dims[2],56))

    ## Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(file, readonly = TRUE): Error in h5checktypeOrOpenLoc(). Cannot open file. File 'Subset1NIS1_20130614_095740_atmcor.h5' does not exist.

    # note the data come in as an array
    class(b56)

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'b56' not found

Next, we will convert the data to a matrix and then to a raster.
We don't need an array because our data are only 2 dimensions at this point (1 single band).


    # Convert from array to matrix so we can plot and convert to a raster
    b56 <- b56[,,1]

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'b56' not found

    # plot the data
    # what happens when we plot?
    image(b56)

    ## Error in image(b56): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'image': Error: object 'b56' not found

    # looks like we need to force a stretch
    image(log(b56), main="band 56 with log transformation")

    ## Error in image(log(b56), main = "band 56 with log transformation"): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'image': Error: object 'b56' not found

    # view distribution
    hist(b56)

    ## Error in hist(b56): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'hist': Error: object 'b56' not found

Ok so now we need to do a few things

1. set the no data value (15000)
2. scale the data by 10000


    noDataVal <- as.integer(reflInfo$`data ignore value`)

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'reflInfo' not found

    # set all values = 15,000 to NA
    b56[b56 == noDataVal] <- NA

    ## Error in b56[b56 == noDataVal] <- NA: object 'b56' not found

    # lets use our scale factor first
    scaleFactor <- reflInfo$`Scale Factor`

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'reflInfo' not found

    b56 <- b56/scaleFactor

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'b56' not found

    hist(b56, main="distribution with NoData Value considered\nData scaled")

    ## Error in hist(b56, main = "distribution with NoData Value considered\nData scaled"): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'hist': Error: object 'b56' not found


Note -- there are still issues with values over 1. I need to followup with
AOP about how to handle these. 

    # Because the data import column, row but we require row, column in R, 
    # We need to transpose x and y values in order for our final image to plot properly
    b56<-t(b56)

    ## Error in t(b56): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 't': Error: object 'b56' not found

    image(log(b56), main="Transposed image")

    ## Error in image(log(b56), main = "Transposed image"): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'image': Error: object 'b56' not found

Next, we need to create the spatial extent required to position the raster in space. 

    # so we can extract the lower left hand corner coordinates.
    # the numbers as position 4 and 5 are the UPPER LEFT CORNER (x,y)
    mapInfo<-unlist(strsplit(mapInfo, ","))

    ## Error in strsplit(mapInfo, ","): object 'mapInfo' not found

    # grab the XY left corner coordinate
    xMin <- as.numeric(mapInfo[4])

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'mapInfo' not found

    # ensure the format is numeric
    yMax <- as.numeric(mapInfo[5])

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'mapInfo' not found

    # we can get the x and y resolution from this string too
    res <- c(mapInfo[2],mapInfo[3])

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'mapInfo' not found

    res <- as.numeric(res)

    ## Error in as.numeric(res): cannot coerce type 'closure' to vector of type 'double'

    #  finally calculate the xMAX value and the YMIN value
    # we grabbed the dimensions above. the xmax is the left corner + number of columns* resolution
    xMax <- xMin + (dims[1]*res[1])

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'xMin' not found

    yMin <- yMax - (dims[2]*res[2])

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'yMax' not found

    # also note that x and y res are the same (1 meter)
    # Now, define the raster extent
    # define the extent (left, right, top, bottom)
    rasExt <- extent(xMin, xMax,yMin,yMax)

    ## Error in extent(xMin, xMax, yMin, yMax): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'extent': Error: object 'xMin' not found

    # now we can create a raster and assign it it's spatial extent
    b56r <- raster(b56,
                   crs=CRS("+init=epsg:32611"))

    ## Error in raster(b56, crs = CRS("+init=epsg:32611")): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'raster': Error: object 'b56' not found

    # assign CRS
    extent(b56r) <- rasExt

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'rasExt' not found

    # note that the raster flips the data once again.
    # i still need to sort out how to explain this but it has to do with how
    # the raster format nativly is stored.
    b56r

    ## Error in eval(expr, envir, enclos): object 'b56r' not found

    plot(b56r, main="Raster for Teakettle - B56")

    ## Error in plot(b56r, main = "Raster for Teakettle - B56"): error in evaluating the argument 'x' in selecting a method for function 'plot': Error: object 'b56r' not found


