---
layout: post
title: "Git - Work Locally"
description: "This tutorial teaches you how to fork, or copy, an existing 
GitHub repository."
date: 2016-05-17
dateCreated: 2014-05-06
lastModified: 2016-06-02
estimatedTime: 
packagesLibraries: []
authors: [Megan A. Jones, Leah Wasser]
contributors: []
categories: [tutorial-series]
tags: []
mainTag: pre-institute2
tutorialSeries: pre-institute2
code1: 
image:
 feature: data-institute-2016.png
 credit:
 creditlink:
permalink: /tutorial-series/pre-institute2/git03
comments: true
---

{% include _toc.html %}

This tutorial teaches you how to clone a GitHub repository to your computer so
that you can work locally on files.

<div id="objectives" markdown="1">
# Learning Objectives
At the end of this activity, you will be able to: 

* Be able to use the `git clone` command to create a local version of a GitHub 
repository on your computer. 

## Additional Resources: 

* <a href="http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/files/git_cheat_sheet.pdf" target="_blank"> Diagram of Git Commands </a>
-- this diagram includes more commands than we will 
learn in this series but includes all that we use for our standard workflow.
* <a href="https://help.github.com/articles/good-resources-for-learning-git-and-github/" target="_blank"> GitHub Help Learning Git resources </a> 

</div>

## Create a local repository
In previous tutorials, we have only used the GitHub interface to fork an 
existing repository to create our own copy. Now we will learn how to create a 
local (on our computer) version of our repository so that we can add to and edit
 the repository content.  

EMBED GRAPHIC GitHub Workflow Basic: highlighting GitHub server to local 
Caption: We can clone a repository from GitHub to create a Git directory 
(local repository) on our computers. 

### Copy Repository URL
Navigate to the repository that you want to clone (copy) to your computer -- 
this should be YourUserName/neon-data-institute-2016.  

Click on the **Clone or Download** button, and copy the URL of the repository. 

### Bash: git clone 

Your computer should already be set up with Git and a shell interface of choice.
If not, please refer back to the
<a href="{{ site.baseurl}}/tutorial-series/pre-institute0/ " target="_blank"> Institute setup materials </a> 
before continuing. 

Open bash on your computer and navigate to the GitHub repository you created in 
Documents during the Set-up Materials. 

```bash
$ cd ~/Documents/GitHub
```
Note: If you chose to put the directory in a different place make sure to type 
the appropriate path.

Now use `git clone` to clone, or create a copy of the entire repository in the 
desired directory on your computer. You can use the standard paste command in 
the shell to paste in the URL that you’ve previously copied. 

```bash

# clone the forked repository to our computers
$ git clone https://github.com/neon/neon-data-institute-2016.git
```
The output shows you what is being cloned to your computer. 

```bash

Cloning into 'neon-data-institute-2016.git'...
remote: Counting objects: 3808, done.
remote: Total 3808 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 3808
Receiving objects: 100% (3808/3808), 2.92 MiB | 2.17 MiB/s, done.
Resolving deltas: 100% (2185/2185), done.
Checking connectivity... done.
$ 

```
Notice that the numbers may differ from this example. 

### View the New Repo
Now we get to check to make sure the repository is actually created on your 
computer where you think it is. 

We can check in the command line using `ls` -- list the contents of the current 
directory. We can also go into the new repository and see the contents. 

```bash

# view directory contents
$ ls

neon-data-institute-2016

# navigate to the new repo
$ cd neon-data-institute-2016

# view repository contents
$ ls

404.md			_includes		code
ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md	_layouts		images
README.md		_posts			index.md
_config.yml		_site			institute-materials
_data			assets			org

```

Alternatively, we can view the local repo `neon-data-institute-2016` in a finder
window. Simply open your Documents in a window and navigate to the new local 
repo. 

Using either method we can see that the file structure exactly mirrors that we 
see in the forked GitHub repo.  


<i class="fa fa-star"></i> **Bonus Tip:** You can use Git and connect to GitHub 
directly in the RStudio interface. If interested, read 
<a href="http://www.r-bloggers.com/rstudio-and-github/" target="_blank">this R-bloggers how to</a>. 
{: .notice}

## Summary Workflow -- Create a Local Repo
In GitHub

* Copy URL of the repo you want to have local

In Shell

* `git clone URLhere`

