---
layout: post
title: "Pre-Institute Week 2 Activity"
description: "The page lists the requirements for the week 2 activity."
date: 2016-05-12
dateCreated: 2016-06-02
lastModified: 2016-06-02
estimatedTime: 
packagesLibraries: []
categories: [tutorial-series]
tags: []
mainTag: pre-institute2
tutorialSeries: pre-institute2
code1: 
image:
 feature: data-institute-2016.png
 credit:
 creditlink:
permalink: /tutorial-series/pre-institute2/git-culmination
comments: true
---

**DUE: 11:59pm, Thursday June 9th** 

During the NEON Data Institute 2016, you will share the code you create daily 
with everyone using the GitHub repo NEON-WorkWithData/neon-data-institute-2016 repo. 

Through this week’s tutorials, you have learned how to create your own 
GitHub user account, set up Git on your computer (please do this on the 
computer you will be bringing to the Institute), and create a Markdown file with
a biography of yourself and the project you are interested in working on at the
Institute.  This biography was shared with the group via the Data Institute’s
GitHub repo. 

## Checklist of this week’s activities:

* Fork & clone the NEON-DataSkills/neon-data-institute-2016 repo. 
* Create a .md file in the “Bios” directory of the repo. Name the document 
LastName_FirstInitial_Bio.md. 
* Write a biography that introduces yourself to the other participants. Please 
provide basic information including:
  + name,
  + domain of interest, 
  + one goal for the course, 
  + an updated version of your Capstone Project idea, 
  + and the list of data (NEON or other) to support the project that you created 
during last week’s materials. 
* Push the document from your local computer to your GithHub repo
* Created a Pull Request to merge this document back into the 
NEON-DataSkills/neon-data-institute-2016 repo. 

NOTE: The Data Institute repository is a public repository, so all members of 
the institute, as well as anyone in the general public who stumbles on the repo,
can see the information. If you prefer not to share this information publically,
please submit the same document but use a pseudonym (cartoon character names
would work well) and email us with the pseudonym so that we can connect the
submitted document to you. 
