---
layout: post
title: "GitHub -- Repos and Forks"
description: "This tutorial teaches you how ."
date: 2016-05-19
dateCreated: 2014-05-06
lastModified: 2016-06-02
estimatedTime: 
packagesLibraries: []
authors: []
contributors: []
categories: [tutorial-series]
tags: []
mainTag:
code1: 
image:
 feature: data-institute-2016.png
 credit:
 creditlink:
permalink: /tutorial-series/pre-institute2/git02
comments: true
---

{% include _toc.html %}

ADD INTRO TEXT

<div id="objectives" markdown="1">
# Learning Objectives
At the end of this activity, you will be able to: 

* Create a GitHub account.
* Know how to navigate to and between GitHub repositories.
* Create your own fork, or copy, a GitHub repository. 
* Explain the relationship between your forked repository and the master 
repository it was created from. 

## Additional Resources: 

* <a href="http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/files/git_cheat_sheet.pdf" target="_blank"> Diagram of Git Commands </a>
-- this diagram includes more commands than we will 
learn in this series but includes all that we use for our standard workflow.
* <a href="http://https://help.github.com/articles/good-resources-for-learning-git-and-github/" target="_blank"> GitHub Help Learning Git resources </a> 

</div>

Please follow along, completing these steps in GitHub, as you complete this tutorial. 

## Create an account.
If you do not already have a GitHub account: 
Go to <a href="http://github.com" target="_blank" >GitHub </a> and sign up for 
your free account. Your username will be what everyone else on GitHub knows you 
as when you make changes or have any activity on GitHub.

If you already have an account, simply sign in. 

<i class="fa fa-star"></i> **Data Tip:** Are you a student? Sign up for the 
<a href="https://education.github.com/pack" target="_blank" >Student Developer Pack</a>
and get the Git Personal account free (with unlimited private repos and other 
discounts/options; normally $7/month). 

## Navigate GitHub

### Find an Existing Repository
You can find repositories in two ways: 

Using the search bar, search “**neon-data-institute-2016**” and select the 
“**NEON-WorkWithData/neon-data-institute-2016**” repository. 

Alternatively, someone might share the URL of a repo they want you to view:
<a href="https://github.com/NEON-WorkWithData/neon-data-institute-2016" target="_blank"> https://github.com/NEON-WorkWithData/neon-data-institute-2016</a>. 

### Navigation of a Repo Page
Take 5 minutes and check out the components of this page as you will be coming 
back to this page regularly. A few features that we will regularly use are 
listed here.

#### GitHub Repository Names
Repository names all take the format: OrganizationName/RepositoryName. So for 
ours we have **NEON-WorkWithData/neon-data-institute-2016**

#### Header Tabs 

* Code - Here you see the structure & contents of the entire repository.
* Issues - Issues are areas to discuss the contents of the repo. 
* Pull Requests - Pull requests are how you sync different repositories. We’ll 
get into these more in the Git 06 tutorial.
* Wiki - throughout the Institute we will use the Wiki pages to host Q&As. Feel 
free to ask or edit (answer) a question at any time. 

#### Other Buttons/Text

* commits - a commit represents a saved and documented change to the content or 
structure of the repository. The commit history contains all changes that have 
been made to that repo. We will discuss commits more in 
<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tutorial-series/pre-institute2/git02" target="_blank"> Git 05 *Git Add Changes -- Commits* </a>. 

## Fork a Repository 

GRAPHIC: GitHub Workflow Basic- Fork portion only
Caption: Now we are we are going to fork, or copy, a master repository to create a user’s forked repository. 

You can fork any repo by clicking on the fork button. 

GRAPHIC: GitHubGuides_Bootcamp-Fork.png 
Caption: The button used to fork any repo. Souces: GitHub Guides https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/ 

You can change a repository name at this point, but for now leave it the same! 

Now spend a few minutes checking out your new fork. 

Check out the forked repositories name. It should be YourUserID/neon-data-institute-2016. If you ever are confused as to the repo you are actually in -- check it out. 

What else is different? Nothing! The fork is an exact copy of the master repo. 

It will stay this way until you make any changes. If the master repository is changed or update your fork will remain the way it is now and will not automatically update (we will learn how to sync these in Git 0x). In the same way, if you make changes to your forked repository the changes will not be added to the master repo until you sync the two. 

## Summary Workflow -- Fork a GitHub Repository

* In GitHub

1. Navigate to desired repo that you want to fork
2. Click Fork button
3. If desired, rename fork. 

