---
layout: post
title: "Git04 - Markdown Files"
description: "This tutorial teaches you how to fork, or copy, an existing
GitHub repository."
date: 2016-05-16
dateCreated: 2014-05-06
lastModified: 2016-06-02
estimatedTime:
packagesLibraries:
authors:
contributors:
categories: [tutorial-series]
tags:
mainTag: pre-institute2
tutorialSeries: pre-institute2
code1:
image:
 feature: data-institute-2016.png
 credit:
 creditlink:
permalink: /tutorial-series/pre-institute2/git04
comments: true
---

{% include _toc.html %}

This tutorial covers how create and format markdown files.

<div id="objectives" markdown="1">
# Learning Objectives
At the end of this activity, you will be able to:

* Create a Markdown (.md) file using a text editor.
* Use basic markdown syntax to format a document including: headers, bold and italics.

</div>

## What is the .md format?

Markdown is a syntax for formatting text documents that are easily human
readable. Markdown can be used to produce nicely formatted documents including
pdf's, web pages and more. In fact, this web page that you are reading right now
is generated from a markdown document!

In this tutorial, we will create a markdown file that documents both who you are
and also the project that you might want to work on at the 2016 Data Institute.


<a class="btn btn-inverse" href="{{ site.baseurl }}/tutorial-series/capstone" target="_blank">
Read more about the Data Institute Capstone Project.</a>

## Markdown formatting

Markdown is simple plain text, that is styled using simply symbols including:
` #, **,  *  '' `

Let's review some basic markdown syntax.  

### Plain text

Plain text will appear as text in a markdown document. You can format that
text in different ways.

For example, if we want to highlight a function or some code within a plain text paragraph,
we can use "`  `". Like this: `Here is some code`. This is the backtick, or 
grave; not an apostrophe.  

To add emphasis to other text you can use **bold** or *italics*.

Have a look at the markdown below:

	 The use of the highlight ( `text` ) will be reserve for denoting code when
	 used in text. To add emphasis to other text use **bold** or *italics*.

Notice that this sentence uses both a code highlight "``", bold and italics.
As a rendered markdown chunk, it looks like this:

The use of the highlight ( `text` ) will be reserve for denoting code when
used in text. To add emphasis to other text use **bold** or *italics*.

### Horizontal lines (rules)

Create a rule:

	  # to create a rule
	  ***

Below is the rule rendered:

***

## Section Headings

You can create a heading using the pound (#) sign. Heading one is one pound sign,
heading two is 2 pound signs, etc as follows:

## Heading two
	## Heading two

### Heading three
	### Heading three

#### Heading four
	#### Heading four


* For a more thorough list of markdown syntax, please read this
<a href="https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/" target="_blank">GitHub Guide on Markdown</a>.

<i class="fa fa-star"></i> **Data Tip:**
There are many free markdown editors out there! The <a href="http://Atom.io" target="_blank">atom.io</a>
editor is a powerful text editor packages by GitHub that also has a markdown renderer
if you want to see what your markdown looks like as you are working.
{: .notice }

<div id="challenge" markdown="1">
## Activity: Create A Markdown Document

Now that you are familiar with the Markdown syntax, you can use it it to create
a brief biography that

1. Introduces yourself to the other participants.
2. Documents the project that you have in mind for the Data Institute.

### Add Your Bio
First, create a .md file using the text editor of your preference. Name the file with
your LastName-FirstName.md naming convention. Save it to the XXXX directory in
your local neon-data-institute-2016 repository.

Add a brief bio using headers, bold and italic formatting as makes sense.
In the bio, please provide basic information including:

* Your Name
* Domain of interest
* One goal for the course


### Add a Capstone Project Description

Next, add a revised Capstone Project idea to the markdown document. Be sure
to specify in the document the types of data that you think you may require to
complete your project.

</div>

**NOTE:** The Data Institute repository is a public repository visible to anyone
with internet access. If you prefer to not share your bio information publically,
please submit your markdown document using a pseudonym for your name. You may also
want to use a pseudonym for your  git account. HINT: cartoon character names  work well.
Please email us with the pseudonym so that we can connect the submitted document to you.


## What is YAML?

YAML is simply a data format. Or, in their own words from the
<a href="http://www.yaml.org/" target="_blank">YAML website</a>:

> YAML Ain't Markup Language. YAML is a human friendly data serialization
standard for all programming languages.

We will use it as the data or instructions for how and where a webpage should be
displayed. This section of code, at the top of each .md file that becomes a
part of the Data Institute repository, contains the information necessary for the
page to be rendered in GitHub's gh-pages and show up as a webpage.  


### Elements of the YAML for the Institute

For the Institute, you will need to include a YAML element at the top of each
.md or .Rmd (that will be knitted to .md), that is submitted to GitHub. This is

    ---
    layout: post
    title: "Title of the Document"
    description: "Something about the document."
    date: 2016-05-19
    lastModified: 2016-06-02
    authors:
    categories: [tutorial-series]
    mainTag: bio
    image:
     feature: data-institute-2016.png
     credit:
     creditlink:
    permalink: /relativepath/here
    comments: true
---

```

Now that you have completed your biography Markdown file, copy the above YAML
element into the top of the document. Make sure to include the `---` a the start
and end as this is how the YAML element is identified. Personalize the

* title,
* description,
* date,
* author (you!),
* and the permalink by adding your last name and first initial -- all lowercase,
no spaces.

Finally, resave the document and proceed to the next tutorial.  


